+++
title = "React - Hooks"
weight = 7
sort_by = "weight"
[extra]
+++
## Hook

### Definition

- A JavaScript function that takes a prop as an argument and returns a React element

#### Caution

- Hooks must be called at the top level of a React function component - Hooks cannot be called inside loops, conditional statements, or nested functions - Hooks can only be called within React functions

<br>

### Types

#### useState

##### Definition

- React hooks for managing component state - You must always specify an **initial value**

##### How to Use

react const [current component variable, state update function] = useState(initial value) 

//예시 const [userName, SetUserName] = useState[''];


//Get value <p>User name: {userName}</p>

// Change the value SetUserName('Alpha');

- Initial values can be 0, true, '' or various other values - Values can be changed using the **state update function (new value)** - Values can be retrieved using the current component function

##### Caution

- Status updates are processed asynchronously.

  - Caution is required when the value of a new state depends on the current value.

  - ~~~react SetCountNum( prevCount => prevCount + 1) ~~~

  - Using the code above ensures the latest value is used - Starting with React 18, state updates are batch processed. If you don't want this, you can prevent batch processing using the **flushSync** API from the react-dom library.

<br>

#### useEffect

##### Definition

- A Hook that performs a specific task whenever a component is rendered - Examples include fetch requests, etc.


##### How to Use

- useEffect accepts two arguments: a callback function and dependencies. - **Callback** function: Contains the logic for secondary tasks. - **Dependencies**: An optional argument representing an array of dependencies. - Using the second argument, dependencies, prevents the code from running every time the component renders.
    - Passing an empty array as the second argument ensures the useEffect function runs only after the first render. - **Example**

react // Called after each render useEffect(() => {   console.log("useEffect function executed") });

// Calls whenever the argument value changes useEffect(() => {   console.log("useEffect function executed") }, [userName]);

// Only call during the first render useEffect(() => {   console.log("useEffect function executed") }, []);

- **Organization of Auxiliary Tasks**

  - When no further processing is required, you can stop the operation by placing the function in the **return** value - **Example**

  react useEffect(() => {     // Task to perform     return () => {         // Task completion logic     } }, [count]};

  - The above code terminates the operation when the value of count changes.

<br>

#### useRef

##### Definition

- Hook that can reference values not needed for rendering - useRef returns a ref object with a single mutable property - Changing the value does not trigger re-rendering - Suitable for roles like storing and managing interval IDs or accessing DOM nodes - To change the internal value, you must manually modify the current property

- **Caution** - Do not use ref.current during rendering - Since it does not trigger re-rendering even when the value changes, use **state** in such cases.

##### How to Use

react // declaration const hookName = useRef(initialValue);

// Example of changing the value const intervalRef = useRef(1);

function handleRefVal() { const intervalId = seInterval(() => { //내부 내용 }, 10); intervalRef.current = intervalId; }

//Interval 취소 function handleStopRefVal() { const intervalId = intervalRef.current; clearInterval(intervalId); } ~~~

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

------

**References**

[Understanding React's useState with Examples](https://docs.tosspayments.com/blog/react-use-state) 

[React Hooks : useEffect() 함수](https://xiubindev.tistory.com/100) 

[[React] Let's Dive Deep into useEffect Again](https://velog.io/@hjthgus777/%EB%8B%A4%EC%8B%9C%ED%95%9C%EB%B2%88-useEffect%EB%A5%BC-%ED%8C%8C%ED%97%A4%EC%B3%90%EB%B3%B4%EC%9E%90) 

[useRef](https://ko.react.dev/reference/react/useRef)