---
layout: post
title:  "Global Object-Oriented Programming, Week 5 - C# Conditional Statements and Classes"
tags: [23-2, GlobalObjectOrientedProgramming]
---

## Conditional Statements

### Types

#### If

- If the condition is met, the code within the brackets is executed.

- Instructions:

  ~~~c#
  if(condition){
 
 }
  ~~~

- {} can be omitted when the command to be executed inside the if statement is a single line

<br/>

#### If else

- If the condition is met, the code within the if statement is executed.

- If the condition is not met, the statements within the `else` block are executed.

- How to use:

  ~~~c#
  if(condition){
 
 }
  else{
 
 }
  ~~~

<br/>

#### If, else, else if

- If the condition is met, the code within the if statement's curly braces is executed.
- If the condition is not met, the else if statement is executed; if its condition is met, the code within the else if statement's curly braces is executed.
- If neither the if statement nor the else if statement is met, the else statement is executed.
- Usage

~~~c#
if(condition1)
{

}
else if(조건2)
{

}
else{
 
}
~~~

<br/>

#### Switch-Case

- Insert a variable into the switch statement and set conditions in the case clauses; when each condition is met, the statements within that case are executed.
- Just like with an if statement, the curly braces ({}) can be omitted if the statement to be executed is a single line.
- As statements become more complex, performance improves compared to if statements.
- Usage

~~~c#
switch(variable_name){
    case condition: {} break;
 ...
    case default: {} break; //Optional
}
~~~

<br/>

### Operators

#### Common Operators

##### ==

- Returns whether the values of the left and right variables are the same

- Example: 

  ~~~c#
  if(a == b) Yes();
  else No();
  ~~~

<br/>

##### !=

- Returns whether the values of the left and right variables are different

- Example: 

  ~~~c#
  if(a == b) Yes();
  else No();
  ~~~

<br/>

##### <

- Returns whether the value of the left-hand side is less than the value of the right-hand side

- Example:

  ~~~c#
  if(a < b) Yes();
  else No();
  ~~~

<br/>

##### <=

- Returns whether the value of the left-hand side is less than or equal to the value of the right-hand side

- Example: 

  ~~~c#
  if(a <= b) Yes();
  else No();
  ~~~

  

<br/>

##### >

- Returns whether the value of the left-hand side is greater than the value of the right-hand side

- Example: 

  ~~~c#
  if(a > b) Yes();
  else No();
  ~~~

  

<br/>

##### >=

- Returns whether the value of the left-hand side is greater than or equal to the value of the right-hand side

- Example: 

  ~~~C#
  if(a >= b) Yes();
  else No();
  ~~~

<br/>

#### Multiple Comparison Operators

##### &&

- and is responsible for that role

- Example:

  ~~~c#
  if(a == 1 && b == 3) Console.WriteLine("True");
  ~~~

  **Results**

  ~~~
  True
  ~~~

  

  <br/>

##### ||

- or takes on the role of

- Example:

  ~~~c#
  int a = 1;
  int b = 5;
  if(a == 1 || b == 3) Console.WriteLine("True");
  ~~~

  **Results**

  ~~~
  True
  ~~~

<br/>

## Class

### Definition

An object that is the subject of a program, implemented using the keyword "class" and consisting of member functions and member variables

### Object

#### Definition

- Creating an instance of a class in heap memory using the `new` keyword

#### How to Use

~~~c#
ClassName ObjectName = new ClassName();
~~~

##### Example

~~~c#
Circle circle = new Circle();
~~~

<br/>

#### How to Call

- If there is no "Static" keyword

  - **ObjectName.Member;**
  - Example)

  ~~~c#
  dog.name;
  ~~~

- If the `static` keyword is present

  - **ClassName.Member;**
  - Example)

  ~~~c#
  Dog.AnimalName
  ~~~


<br/>

### This

- Used to access a member of the object itself
- From outside the object, use **objectName.method** or **objectName.variable** to access the object's methods or variables
- Used within the object to access its own variables or methods

<br/>

### Constructor

- A method used for initialization, called when an instance is created
- It shares the same name as the class and can accept any number of arguments
- It has no return type

<br/>

nameSpace

#### Definition

- A collection of related classes

#### Purpose of Use

- Used to distinguish your own class when collaborating

#### Approach

- **Namespace.Class.Method/Member Variable**

